Home
Map
Vocab
About
Submit
Privacy
BYW | Home
BYW | Map
BYW | Vocab
BYW | About
BYW | Submit
BYW | Privacy
BYW | Page Not Found
Test the 404 page
Contributing
Everyone can help learners find places to go and use their Welsh. Your submissions also help us to monitor how much the language is used, not just in Wales, but across the world
Submitting a review is quick and no account or login is required. If you are aware of a place that Welsh can be heard and used, but is not already in our index, submitting it to the index will let others know
Useful links
Visit us on
Highly unlikely
Not very likely
Likely
Very likely
Highly likely
Definitely
Show
Categorise
404 Not Found
Crowd sourced
Welsh
language resource
Let's
find
somewhere
Find out where to use and hear the language
Search
What are you searching for?
Search Results
Location
and
more
API
Map
Languages
Choose your preferred language
Our Services
What does
do for me?
Local Places
This site is simply about getting people to use their Welsh. It is available in a couple of languages to help learners from all parts of the globe to find places to use and improve their Welsh skills
Native Speakers
However, this is not just about learners. Those fluent need to also use their Welsh whenever they can. Welsh needs to be heard on the street, in the shops and wherever we get together
Days out
So, before you shop, go on a day out, or whatever you like to do, see if there will be a Welsh language welcome and, above all, use your Welsh yourself!
Thought of the day
Result
Results
Pages
Search for places, coordinates and postcodes
Legend to the map
A quick glympse of Welsh speaking likeliness
Vocabulary
Beta
This is a beta version of an attempt to provide a searchable resource for commonly heard sayings
Currently it has
words and phrases out of a target of
phrases and words found
English
Cymraeg
Notes
About
What can
do?
Byw.cymru is a community driven, crowd sourced, Welsh language resource. Its primary aim is to help learners and others who are interested in the language find places where they can hear and use the language
The whole project is
open source
and all decisions are made in the open on the projects repo, hosted on
The aim of the project is to make finding out this information as easy as possible, with the maximum of community involvement. Therefore the design of the website is to be as easy and quick to use as possible. It is focused around the map page which is the primary resource for searching the index
All the code that makes up the website is available in the projects repo and is viewable by anybody. The website and data is hosted using community donated resources. The Api provides access to the data to anybody who wants it. Over time it is expected that the number of Api endpoints will be increased to make it more useful to developers and researchers
Contributing
The quickest and easiest way to contribute to the project is to submit a review. This just means adding a new place to the index or updating an existing one if necessary
Anybody can do this and no login or account is necessary
If there are any issues discovered, bugs found or suggestions to be made then check out the
issues page
on
Those who wish to be more involved should check out the project repo, which is hosted on
There is plenty of work to do to make this project a useful tool for Welsh learners
Submit a categorisation
Name
Category
Status
How to
find somewhere already listed
The premises you selected in the map page will appear in the submit box ready for your review of Welsh speaking likelyhood
Choose what you feel is best and hit submit
If the premises you selected is not where you want to submit a review for then just drag the map pin, the form will be cleared, and you can locate the premises you want to submit
submit a new premises
Drag the map pin to locate the place
The coordinates and postcode will be filled out. Just add the name of the premises and the address as you would like it to appear in the index
Select how likely you feel a person is to hear and be able to use Welsh in the premises. This isn't scientific, just what you think is likely
If the index appears inaccurate
The category (how likely it is to use Welsh) of a premises is calculated by aggregating all the reviews received. So your submission will be taken into account straight away, but it may or may not affect the current rating
If you feel the rating of a premises is way off and remains way off after you have submitted your rating, then please get in touch. If you are the business owner we can help by pointing you in the direction of resources to help increase the use of Welsh in your business. If the data in the index is just plain wrong then we can correct it
Submitted
Submit
Clear
Clear the form to drop a pin
Drag the pin...
Name of premises
Address of premises
Postcode of premises
Coordinates
Category
A name is required
An address is required to identify the premises
A category is required to help others know what to expect
If a postcode is supplied it must be valid, or just use the coordinates
Coordinates can be set by moving the pin on the map and are required
The category has to be set
It has not been possible to verify the supplied coordinates, please try again
Type
Download link
SHA256 Hash